# SBM Monorepo

This was created to ease development of a compatible vehicle network for the team and get some members learning and understanding CAN and some basic software development techniques. The team's origins are grounded in Mechanical Engineering but the highest paid engineers in automotive do a lot of software now regardless of what their degree says.

My hope here is to help the team understand how this all works as well as grease the skids with some glue code, templates and cloud automation to allow you guys to focus on the actual domain content and getting data.

# Crash Course on SW Development:

Git, CI/CD, CAN, Compilation. **Scary**.<BR>  Relax. You'll be fine. I'll explain. This is in no particular order because there wasn't a cohesive flow i could establish.

## Git: 
Git is decentralized source control that has dominated the software industry for years now. It allows multiple parties to work on the same content simultaneously and then bring that work back together. Do not attempt to use it for Simulink files. Only hand code.

#### Git Terms:
- Repository: A copy of your code with its history, they exist locally (literally the directory you're in) and remotely in the form of a git server, such as github.  
- Cloning: getting files from a remote repository and making a copy of it with its history
- Staging: preparing file changes for submittion into the local repository's history. 
- Commit: A documented set of changes to the repository. 
- Push: Transferring commits made locally to the remote repository on the server. 
- Branches: Different versions of your code that allow you to take different paths for development. You can swap between them quite easily. 

Take a 20-30 minute video class on it somewhere and do a little practice. It will help you long term in your career. Even without a remote server, you can use git locally for scripts.<br> ```TODO: Find the team a good video / class / exercise```

You will need a github account and SBM will need to allow contributions from your account.

Tips: 
Commit early and often
Use pull requests to get buy-in from the team and document discussions.
Ask for help on slack if you need it.

## Mono-Repo

Just like it sounds: ```ONE REPO```. A mono-repo is a concept used to help align SW dependencies between various components in a project. Git has means of sharing code between repositories (```submodules```) but they are cumbersome and a bit much for SW newbies. <BR>
The biggest inter-dependencies would be communication related which is defined by the ```.dbc``` file and things that it is used to generate the files described in the next section.
## Autogenerated CAN interface Library

The ```.dbc``` file that use used to define the CAN communication network for the vehicle resides in the ```dbc``` folder. This repository will automatically generate the .c and .h files needed for packing and unpacking CAN bus Messages. 

At every push to the github server, a Github Action will fire, checking if any files in the ```dbc``` directory have changed. If they have, it will run and overwrite the output in the ```can_conv``` directory. It will then commit the changes.

The underlying code used for the conversion can be seen [here](https://github.com/howerj/dbcc#dbc-convertercompiler). Please note the restriction on 8 byte. I think the 8-bites noted on the first paragraph is supposed to be bytes. 

**DANGER**: So as not to ruin other people's work, it's very important that you not rename the ```.dbc``` file and only add signals and messages to it. Modifying existing signal names and changing existing message structures may cause breaking changes that you'll need to fix later.

## Arduino, VSCode and Some Silly Restrictions:
Arduino abstracts a lot of SW development pain away from us but it has some silly things going on such as a forced directory structure.
It keeps things simplified for software noobs so I suggest to stick with it. Other embedded programming frameworks are complicated.
Amoung other things, here's what it always wants to see:
- Parent directory and Sketch file name match. 
- In the parent directory, another directory ```src``` exists that contains code that is part of the sketch but not an official or installed library.
<br>

Because the parent directory and sketch file have the aformenetioned name requirements, you can't compile multiple sketches using the same ```src``` directory. That means we have to have the CAN interface files described above available in the ```src``` directory. Instead of making copies over and over again, we leverage symbolic links which are just a fancy shortcut pointing to another location. This is why you need to have Developer Mode on. 

# Setup
``` TODO: ADD LINKS```
- Enable Developer Mode on Windows 10.
- Install git for Windows. During installation make sure to Enable Symbolic Links.  
- Install the Arduino Client. Don't get the fancy new one. 
- Install the board packages for the Feather M4 CAN.
    - You should not need a special driver for this. Should just plug in.
    - Verify you can connect to the board and see output on the Serial Monitor.
- Install the CAN library for the Feather M4 CAN. It is titled ```CAN Adafruit Fork```.
- Optional: Install VSCode with reccomended packages:
    - vsciot-vscode.vscode-arduino
    - ms-vscode.cpptools
    - eamodio.gitlens
- Clone this repository

Newbies, reach out of this is not complete enough. 

# How to Use This Repo for a New Node: 

1. Leave the CAN_Node_Example as-is. That's a template. Review it carefully and get a feel for what it's doing. As the team asks me questions on how to execute something, I would be making my updates and changes there. 
2. When you're ready to create a new node, make a copy of that directory to the root of the repo. This will copy the required symbolic link as well.
3. Due to the sensitivity of the symbolic links in windows, make sure you're using git from cmd or powershell (i.e. Not git bash or WSL).



